imagine being the owner of a minecraft
server but not your typical factions
Skyblock county hub minigame server with
nitpicky rules paid Owen ranks and
abusive admins no imagine being the
owner of a minecraft server where there
isn't an admin to rollback your grief a
server where mostly everyone is hacking
a server with absolutely no rules
meaning you can't fan anyone under any
circumstances this is my minecraft
anarchy server also known as the
youngest Anarchy server in Minecraft
since I released my last video talking
about how I decided to start my own
minecraft anarchy server people left and
right have flocked to it to see what
it's all about as of writing the script
over 16,000 unique players have logged
onto the server and the player cap of
127 has more or less been reached 24/7
but with the great number of players
comes huge problems the first apparent
problem we had with the server was the
lag
more specifically the TPS or ticks per
second a minecraft server is supposed to
consistently run at 20 TPS which means
that there should not be any lag but
when that number goes below 20 certain
gameplay aspects start to become more
and more laggy to the point where the
entire game becomes unplayable in my
experience 22 15 TPS is usually pretty
playable with the occasional block lag
and rubber-banding 14 to 10 TPS is not
ideal you'll get lots of laggy server
behavior and new chunks may start to
load a lot slower 9 to 60 PS is when
things start getting real ugly common
tasks like eating or punching a tree
start to take much longer to do also the
block lag and new chunk generation
becomes extremely slow almost to the
point of becoming unplayable now 5 - 1
TPS is pretty much unplayable if you've
ever tried eating a pork chop at 2 TPS
you'll know what I mean now that we know
what TPS means what actually causes low
TPS well a lot of things can cause a
minecraft server to slow down but there
are two major reasons why a minecraft
servers TPS can become very low that's
terrain generation and Mojang let me
explain if we look at to be 2t
the oldest anarchy server in Minecraft
there I said it the owner of two b2t
house master constantly implements
patches to disable fast player movement
hacks like entity speed or electrifly
why well new terrain generation is one
of the most lag intensive things in
Minecraft just a few players at once
loading new chunks can cause a server to
fall to its knees but why we have super
powerful 16 thread 32 thread 64 thread
processors that perform faster than
we've ever seen before and that's where
we unfortunately have to blame Mojang if
you purchase one of those insane 64
threaded CPUs and try to run a minecraft
server on it it would run the same as
your typical i7 processor in your gaming
rig kiss the rest of your 63 threads
goodbye because for the most part
minecraft can only take advantage of one
CPU thread yes I do know minecraft can
kind of take advantage of multiple
threads in specific situations but not
in a very efficient way to cause that
much of a performance boost in that case
the rah gigahertz of a single thread is
crucial for the performance of a
minecraft server when I originally
opened my server I immediately saw how
terrible the TPS was due to the low
clock speed of the course so I quickly
sought other options for a server host
luckily I found a host that was a
perfect fit for our needs pebble host
and I want to give a huge thanks to them
as they provided us with a 4.9 gigahertz
boost clock Intel Xeon CPU on a virtual
machine that was perfect for running our
server oh and if you want a server of
your own an affiliate link to the site
will be in the description of this video
and thanks again so much to pebble host
for being the sponsor of today's video
because without them the server would be
a laggy mess now that we had the TPS
under control our team can now focus on
other issues the server had like oh no
please no not the Q plugin I swear to
god our Q plugin keeps giving us issues
left and right but don't get me wrong
the Q did work but with huge flaws the
first apparent issue our Q plugin had
was that it would not update the counter
if a player disconnected from the cue
server without entering the main server
this created so called air bubbles in
the Q player count that's on
time's made it look like almost double
the amount of players were in the queue
at a time when in reality they were
ghost players all right no problem we'll
just contact the developer and we'll get
this fixed right away and that's what we
did but we kept getting excuses after
excuses saying that he was busy or that
he couldn't recreate the problem this
went on for literally over a week and
keep in mind we paid money for the
support for this q plugin it eventually
got so bad that cortex one of the Java
programming masterminds who is currently
helping us with the pack dot PNG project
offered to help by fixing what the
plug-in creator couldn't I also want to
give a huge thanks to this guy who was
also a huge help with fixing this plugin
now there are so many other issues with
this Q plugin like the permissions for
staff priority which doesn't even work
at all but I don't want to make this
video all about this nightmare of a Q
plugin so let's move on the server had a
lot of other issues like for a brief
period if he tried to place a sign it
would kick you from the server why well
it turns out that our anti Qi plugin was
freaking out for some reason over some
sign placements but that was quickly
patched and I certainly can't finish
this video without mentioning the most
apparent problem yet BOTS it has
certainly been an everyday battle of
these things they clog up the queue and
are just a nuisance
we've tried adding a CAPTCHA but it was
easily bypassed however we're going to
keep trying to stop them with a few
ideas we have up our sleeves at this
point I think I'm really feeling the way
housemaster does when it comes to
running an anarchy server you want a
band player so badly but you just can't
it wouldn't be true anarchy that's all I
have for today guys I'll be back
[Music]